README.md, before:

FAT
===

Functional analysis toolbox: scripts for analysis of fMRI data

# Preprocessing

There are a number of simple tools for running preprocessing and
creating standard directory structure and file names. These tools
include most of the basic functionality of `setup_subject.py`, and are
designed to be easier to understand and fix when problems arise.

To use these scripts, you must first set up a few environment
variables:

* `STUDY` - name of the study (e.g. `bender`)
* `STUDYDIR` - path to the main study directory, where the subject
  directories are (e.g. `/corral-repl/utexas/prestonlab/bender`)
* `BATCHDIR` - path to the directory where batch scripts should be
  stored. Your work directory might be a good place for this. It may
  also be helpful to have a directory that is specific to the study
  you're currently working
  on. (e.g. `/work/03206/mortonne/batch/bender`)
* `PATH` and `PYTHONPATH` must be set to include `fat/utils` and
  `fat/preproc`.

See
[this sample profile](https://github.com/prestonlab/bender/blob/master/bender_profile)
for an example of how to set these environment variables correctly.

Scripts in usual order of execution:


* `download_subj.py` Gets data from the XNAT server (not tested yet).
* `convert_dicom.py` Converts DICOM files to Nifti format. This should
  work on either data downloaded from XNAT or files that were exported
  manually.
* `rename_nifti.py` Creates standard sub-directories and renames Nifti
  files to standard names.
* `run_freesurfer.sh` Simple script that submits a job to run a
  standard FreeSurfer reconstruction on a subject.
* `convert_freesurfer.py` Converts some important FreeSurfer files
  into Nifti format and places them in the anatomy directory.
* `unwarp_bold.py` Uses the output of `epi_reg` (included with FSL) to
  unwarp EPI images.
* `reg_unwarp_bold.py` Calculates alignment of each unwarped average
  functional scan to an unwarped average reference scan, then does
  unwarping and co-registration of each functional series in a single
  step.

## Testing and batch processing

Each of the python preprocessing scripts listed above has standard
options, which you can view by typing `[scriptname] -h`. Each of them
supports a `--dry-run` flag, which just displays the commands that
will be executed without running anything. This is handy for testing
the script out before running it. Once you've confirmed that the
commands make sense, you can easily submit a job by typing:

`submit_job.sh -r [max run time] '[scriptname] [subject ID]
[other arguments]'`

For example, to test out `convert_dicom.py` on `bender_1`:

`convert_dicom.py bender_1 --dry-run`

To actually submit a job to run the DICOM conversion:

`submit_job.sh -r 01:00:00 'convert_dicom.py bender_1'`

This will automatically create a script with the command and use
`launch` to submit it to the cluster. The job will be automatically
given a (sequentially ordered) name, and the submitted script will be
in `$BATCHDIR/auto/Job[job number].sh`. When the job finishes, the
output will be placed in
`$BATCHDIR/auto/Job[job number].o[queue job ID]`.

More information about each job will be placed in the subject's `logs`
directory. The `preproc.log` file stores summary information about the
preprocessing steps run so far, while step-specific logs contain
details about the commands run and their output.

# Installation

## Getting a copy of a project from GitHub

* Get an account on GitHub
* Send an owner (currently Neal, Mike, Bernie or Evan) your username so they
can add you to the prestonlab group
* To install using the GitHub app (does not work on TACC or on older
Macs):
  * Install the app from the GitHub website
  * Sign into your account
  * Click on the + icon in the upper left; go to the clone tab
  * You should see the repository if you have access to it
  * Select the one you want and click the Clone button, then select
    where you want to place the repository
* To install using ssh (does not require entering a password when
installing code or making changes):
  * Set up an SSH key with GitHub (you only need to do this once for
  each computer, and then it will work for other code repositories).
  See the section "Adding an SSH key" below.
  * On GitHub, go to the page of the project you want. In the lower
right, click on SSH so that the SSH clone URL is displayed. This is
the URL you need to clone the repository.
  * On the computer where you want the code, type `git clone
  [SSH clone URL]`, for example `git clone
  git@github.com:prestonlab/fat.git` to download the repository.
* To install using HTTPS (requires entering a password when making any
changes):
  * On GitHub, go to the page of the project you want. In the lower
    right, click on HTTPS so that the HTTPS clone URL is
    displayed. This is the URL you need to clone the repository.
  * On the computer where you want the code, type `git clone
    [HTTPS clone URL]`, for example `git clone
    https://github.com/prestonlab/fat.git`.
  * Enter your GitHub username and password to download the
    repository.

## Adding an SSH key

Follow these steps to add an SSH key to GitHub so you can push and
pull from git projects without having to enter your password.

* On the computer where you want the code, check if there is a file in
`~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`. If not, in the terminal run `ssh-keygen`. Hit
enter through all the options to create a passwordless key.
* Type `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`; this will display the public key that
you just created. Go to your account page on GitHub and click the
settings icon in the upper right. Click on the "SSH keys" tab, then
"Add SSH Key".
* Copy the public key into the box; give the key a title so you will
know what computer it corresponds to. You will need to generate and
add a different key for each computer you use.

Commit message:

README.md: added note about running_jobs.sh

README.md, after:

FAT
===

Functional analysis toolbox: scripts for analysis of fMRI data

# Preprocessing

There are a number of simple tools for running preprocessing and
creating standard directory structure and file names. These tools
include most of the basic functionality of `setup_subject.py`, and are
designed to be easier to understand and fix when problems arise.

To use these scripts, you must first set up a few environment
variables:

* `STUDY` - name of the study (e.g. `bender`)
* `STUDYDIR` - path to the main study directory, where the subject
  directories are (e.g. `/corral-repl/utexas/prestonlab/bender`)
* `BATCHDIR` - path to the directory where batch scripts should be
  stored. Your work directory might be a good place for this. It may
  also be helpful to have a directory that is specific to the study
  you're currently working
  on. (e.g. `/work/03206/mortonne/batch/bender`)
* `PATH` and `PYTHONPATH` must be set to include `fat/utils` and
  `fat/preproc`.

See
[this sample profile](https://github.com/prestonlab/bender/blob/master/bender_profile)
for an example of how to set these environment variables correctly.

Scripts in usual order of execution:


* `download_subj.py` Gets data from the XNAT server (not tested yet).
* `convert_dicom.py` Converts DICOM files to Nifti format. This should
  work on either data downloaded from XNAT or files that were exported
  manually.
* `rename_nifti.py` Creates standard sub-directories and renames Nifti
  files to standard names.
* `run_freesurfer.sh` Simple script that submits a job to run a
  standard FreeSurfer reconstruction on a subject.
* `convert_freesurfer.py` Converts some important FreeSurfer files
  into Nifti format and places them in the anatomy directory.
* `unwarp_bold.py` Uses the output of `epi_reg` (included with FSL) to
  unwarp EPI images.
* `reg_unwarp_bold.py` Calculates alignment of each unwarped average
  functional scan to an unwarped average reference scan, then does
  unwarping and co-registration of each functional series in a single
  step.

## Testing and batch processing

Each of the python preprocessing scripts listed above has standard
options, which you can view by typing `[scriptname] -h`. Each of them
supports a `--dry-run` flag, which just displays the commands that
will be executed without running anything. This is handy for testing
the script out before running it. Once you've confirmed that the
commands make sense, you can easily submit a job by typing:

`submit_job.sh -r [max run time] '[scriptname] [subject ID]
[other arguments]'`

For example, to test out `convert_dicom.py` on `bender_1`:

`convert_dicom.py bender_1 --dry-run`

To actually submit a job to run the DICOM conversion:

`submit_job.sh -r 01:00:00 'convert_dicom.py bender_1'`

This will automatically create a script with the command and use
`launch` to submit it to the cluster. The job will be automatically
given a (sequentially ordered) name, and the submitted script will be
in `$BATCHDIR/auto/Job[job number].sh`. When the job finishes, the
output will be placed in
`$BATCHDIR/auto/Job[job number].o[queue job ID]`.

More information about each job will be placed in the subject's `logs`
directory. The `preproc.log` file stores summary information about the
preprocessing steps run so far, while step-specific logs contain
details about the commands run and their output.

If you are processing multiple subjects at once and lose track of
which jobs are running, you can use `running_jobs.sh` to list all the
commands being run by jobs currently on the queue:

	login6.ls4(670)$ running_jobs.sh 
	Job50:
	reg_unwarp_bold.py bender_2 study_1
	Job53:
	bender_epi_reg.py bender_3
	Job54:
	bender_reg_days.py bender_5

# Installation

## Getting a copy of a project from GitHub

* Get an account on GitHub
* Send an owner (currently Neal, Mike, Bernie or Evan) your username so they
can add you to the prestonlab group
* To install using the GitHub app (does not work on TACC or on older
Macs):
  * Install the app from the GitHub website
  * Sign into your account
  * Click on the + icon in the upper left; go to the clone tab
  * You should see the repository if you have access to it
  * Select the one you want and click the Clone button, then select
    where you want to place the repository
* To install using ssh (does not require entering a password when
installing code or making changes):
  * Set up an SSH key with GitHub (you only need to do this once for
  each computer, and then it will work for other code repositories).
  See the section "Adding an SSH key" below.
  * On GitHub, go to the page of the project you want. In the lower
right, click on SSH so that the SSH clone URL is displayed. This is
the URL you need to clone the repository.
  * On the computer where you want the code, type `git clone
  [SSH clone URL]`, for example `git clone
  git@github.com:prestonlab/fat.git` to download the repository.
* To install using HTTPS (requires entering a password when making any
changes):
  * On GitHub, go to the page of the project you want. In the lower
    right, click on HTTPS so that the HTTPS clone URL is
    displayed. This is the URL you need to clone the repository.
  * On the computer where you want the code, type `git clone
    [HTTPS clone URL]`, for example `git clone
    https://github.com/prestonlab/fat.git`.
  * Enter your GitHub username and password to download the
    repository.

## Adding an SSH key

Follow these steps to add an SSH key to GitHub so you can push and
pull from git projects without having to enter your password.

* On the computer where you want the code, check if there is a file in
`~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`. If not, in the terminal run `ssh-keygen`. Hit
enter through all the options to create a passwordless key.
* Type `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`; this will display the public key that
you just created. Go to your account page on GitHub and click the
settings icon in the upper right. Click on the "SSH keys" tab, then
"Add SSH Key".
* Copy the public key into the box; give the key a title so you will
know what computer it corresponds to. You will need to generate and
add a different key for each computer you use.
